you
this lecture is about the recommender
systems so so far we have talked about a
lot of aspects of search engines and we
have talked about the problem of search
and ranking problem different methods
for any implementation of search engine
and how to evaluate the search engine
etc this is a part because we know that
web search engines are by far the most
important applications of tax retrieval
and they are the most useful tools to
help people convert a big raw text data
into a small set of relevant documents
another reason why we spend so many
lectures on search engines is because
many techniques used in search engines
are actually also very useful for
recommender systems which is the topic
of this lecture and so overall the two
systems are actually well connected and
there are many techniques that are
shared by them so this was a slide that
you have seen before when we talked
about the two different modes of text
access poor and push and we mentioned
that recommender systems are the main
systems to serve users in the push mode
where the systems would take initiative
through recommend the information to
user or to pushes a relevant information
to the user and this often works well
when the user has a relatively stable
information either when the system has a
good knowledge about what the user wants
so a recommender system sometimes called
a filtering system and because
recommending useful items to people is
like discarding or filtering out the
useless articles and so in this sense
they are kind of similar
and in all the cases the system must
make a binary decision and usually there
is a dynamic source of information items
and you have some knowledge about this
users interest and then the system would
make a deliberate decision whether this
item is interesting to the user and then
if it's an interest in then the system
would recommend the article to the user
so the basic filtering question here is
really we have this user like this item
where you like item X and there are two
ways to enter this question if you think
about it one is look at what items you
likes and then we can see if X is
actually like those items the other is
to look at the whole likes X and we can
see if this user looks like one of those
users or like most of those users and
these strategies can be combined if we
follow the first two strategy and look
at item similarity in the case of
recommending text objects then we are
talking about the content-based or
filtering or content-based of
recommendation if we look at the second
strategy then it will compare users and
in this case we are exploiting user
similarity and the technique is often
called a collaborative filtering so
let's first look at the content-based
filtering system this is what the system
would look like inside the system there
will be a binary classifier that would
have some knowledge about the users
interest and this is called a user
interest profile it maintains this
profile to keep track of the users
interest and then there was a utility
function to guide the user to make
decisions and I explained the utility
function in a moment and it helps the
system decide where a certain threshold
and then the accept this document will
be those that have passed the threshold
according to the classify
there should be also in an
initialization module that would take a
user's input
from users specified keywords or chosen
category etc and this would be through
feed in the system with the initial user
profile there is also typically a
learning module that would learn from
users feedback over time now note that
in this case typically users information
either is stable so the system would
have a lot of opportunities to observe
the users you know if the user has taken
a recommended item has viewed that and
this is a signal to indicate that the
recommend item may be relevant if the
user discarded it oh it's not relevant
and so such feedback can be a long-term
feedback and can last for a long time
and the system can collect a lot of
information about the users interest and
this can then be used to improve the
classifier
now what's the criteria for evaluating
such a system how do we know this
filtering system actually performs well
now in this case we cannot use the
ranking evaluation measures like a map
because we can afford waiting for a lot
of documents and then rank the documents
to make a decision for the user and so
the system must be make a decision in
real-time in general to decide whether
the item is above the threshold or not
so in other words we're trying to decide
an absolute the red ones so in this case
one commonly used is where the user to
use a utility function to evaluate the
system so here I show a medium utility
function that's defined as for example 3
multiplied by the number of good items
that you delivered minus 2 multiplied by
the number of bad items you delay can
you deliver so in other words we could
kind of just treat this as almost a in
gamboling game if you delete if you
deliver one good item let's say you win
$3 you gain three down to the $3 but if
you deliver a bad one and you will lose
$2 and this utility function basically
kind of mash
how much money you get by doing this
kind of game I and so it's clear that if
you want to maximize this utility
function your strategy should be to
deliver as many good articles as
possible and minimize the delivery of
bad articles now that's obvious right
now one interesting question here is how
should we set these coefficients now I
just show the three and the negative two
as is the possible coefficients but one
can ask the question are they reasonable
so what do you think do you think of
that sort of reasonable choice what
about the other choices you know so for
example we can have ten and a minus 1 or
1 minus 10 what's the difference what do
you think how would this utility
function affect the system's threshold
decision right you can think of these
two extreme cases 10 minus 1 vs. 1 minus
10 which one do you think I would
encourage in a system to over-deliver
which one would encourage the system to
be conservative yeah if you think about
that they will see that when we get a
big award for delivering a good document
you incur only a small penalty for
delivering a better one intuitively you
would be encouraging to deliver more
right and you can try to deliver more in
hope of getting a good one delivered and
then will get a big reward all right so
on the other hand if you choose 1 minus
10 you don't really get such a big price
if you didn't deliver a good document on
the other hand you will have a big loss
if you deliver better one you can
imagine that the system would be very
reluctant to deliver a lot of documents
it has to be absolutely sure that it's
not another than the one so this utility
function has to be designed based on a
specific application this replaced the
problems in content-based filtering
Artforum first it has to
make a filtering decision so it has to
be a binary decision maker a binary
classifier given a text text document
and a profile description of the user it
has to say yes or no whether this
document should be deleted or not so
that's a decision module and they should
be initialization module as you have
seen earlier and this is a recap the
system started and we have to initialize
the system based on only very limited
taxes description or very few examples
from the user and the third component is
the learning module which he had has to
be able to learn from limited relevance
judgment because we count and learn from
the user about their preferences on the
deliver documents if we don't deliver
document to the user would never know we
would never be able to know whether the
user likes it or not right and we can
accumulate a lot of documents you can
learn from the entire history and all
these modules would have to be optimized
to maximize the utility so how can we be
all such a system and there are many
different approaches here we're going to
talk about how to extend a retrieval
system a search engine for information
filtering again here's why we've spent a
lot of time to talk about the search
engines because it's actually not very
hard to extend the search engine for
information filtering so here's the
basic idea for extending a retrieval
system for information filtering first
we can we used a lot of retrieval
techniques to do scoring right so we
know how to score documents against
queries etcetera we measure the
similarity between profile
text description and document and then
we can use a score threshold for the
filtering decision we we do retrieval
and then we kind of find the scores of
documents and then we apply threshold to
to say to see whether
document is passing the threshold or not
and if it's passing the threshold within
the state's
relevant and we're going to deliver it
to the user and another component
there is of course to learn from the
history and here we can use the
traditional feedback techniques to learn
to improve scoring and we know rockeo
can be used for scoring improvement
right but we have to develop new
approaches to learn how to set the
threshold and you know we need to set it
initially and then we have to learn how
to update the threshold all the time so
here's what the system might look like
if we just generalized the vector space
model for filtering problems right so
you can see the document vector could be
fed into a scoring module which is
already existing in a search engine that
implements back to space model and the
profile will be treated as a query
essentially and then the profile vector
can be matched with the document vector
to generate the score and then this
score would be fed into a threshold in
module that would say yes or no and then
the evaluation would be based on utility
for the filtering results if it says yes
and then the document will be sent into
the user and then the user keeps some
feedback and the feedback information
would have been you would be used to
both adjust to the threshold and to
adjust to the vector representation so
the vector learning is recenter the same
as query modification or feedback in the
case of search the threshold learning is
a new component that we need to talk a
little bit more about
you
[Music]